now let's find out more about the
situation the humanitarian situation
inside Gaza and speak to Juliet Tuma now
who's the global director of
communications for the un's relief
Agency for Palestinian refugees known as
unra Juliet thank you for joining us
from Aman uh the ceasefire deal of
course also includes the delivery of
much needed humanitarian Aid into Gaza
and I understand that you've been in in
Gaza you were just in Gaza what can you
tell us about the current humanitarian
situation there how much Aid has gone in
in these past three days
yes thank you very much over the past
few days during this uh temporary
humanitarian post uh there has been an
increase in the number of trucks and
assistance coming in including to the
north of the Gaza Strip for the first
time since the War Began um so that's
obviously welcome now all eyes are on
what's going to happen when the pause is
due to come to an end and so we do hope
that the pause is extended and at Andra
we have been calling for this pause to
transform into a longer term
humanitarian ceasefire yeah indeed the
hope is that the pose will be extended
and that more Aid will go in 5008 truns
understand have gone in can you tell us
about what's been distributed and
whether it's reaching people everywhere
across the Gaza Strip whether those in
the North or those in the
South it's certainly a breakthrough in
comparison to what we've been having
which has been pretty much nothing uh on
average we were getting 40 to 50 tracks
so having 200 trucks coming every day is
a relief it's very important it includes
uh food items medicine hygiene supplies
survival items that are very very basic
for any human being anywhere in the
world look at the everything is closed
in Gaza you drive around it looks like a
ghost town and I was only in in the
southern Parts the shops are closed the
pharmacies are closed and so while
humanitarian assistance is absolutely
fundamental critical life saving of
course that alone is not going to be
enough in the medium to longer term so
what needs to happen is Commercial
Supplies that need to come in in support
of the private sector so that it stands
on its feet and as we've been seeing
it's raining in Doha winter is just
around the corner and conditions for
people are of course extremely difficult
C uh because they're living in makeshift
uh shelters and and so on what else is
needed right now as winter begins to set
in everything is needed these are people
who have lost everything and they need
everything in the shelter where we
visited uh home to more than 30,000
people used to be one of our vocational
training center at Andra of course no
longer now it's a it's this huge shelter
people are literally on top of each
other they continue to come in new uh
people come in um there is very little
water they have barely one meal a day um
there's not enough supplies the
newcomers who have come in in the past
10 days or a week um they don't even
have matrices they have to sleep on the
concrete in the shelter I mean there was
this one man that we that we met and he
uses his shoes as a cushion so we're
talking about the basics the basic items
for for any human anywhere in the world
Juliet thank you for talking to us
Juliet Tuma from un joining us there
from
Aman